When a person has COPD
the airway walls are damaged
and thickened, narrowing the lumen.
Patients cannot exhale as quickly
or as easily as they used to.
Goblet cells, which are located
in these larger airways,
are enlarged, and they
produce much more mucus.
Leading to a productive cough.
Significant pathologic features are
also apparent in the distal airways.
An inflammatory response
develops in the small airways
from noxious particles
and gases in cigarette smoke.
These airways become adenomatous
and microphages, T-cells
and neutrophils gather there.
The activated inflammatory cells
release a continuous stream of
inflammatory products
including elastase,
collagenase,
and cytokines
into the walls of the small airways
and into the airspaces.
We also see widespread
alveolar wall destruction.
Alveolar wall destruction
leads to a reduction in lung
elastic recoil.
The remaining alveoli
increase in size.
The devastating effect of reduced
elastic recoil becomes more apparent
as we look at a cross section of
the small airways.
Small airways normally lack
cartilaginous support.
When they are no longer held open
by the elastic recoil of
intact alveoli.
The small airways collapse.
Air is trapped within alveoli
making it difficult for
patients to exhale fully.